# LITA-CAPSTONE-PROJECT

## Sales Data Project

### Project Overview
The Sales Data project is a project aimed at gathering and analysing sales data to be have a better business result. The primary aim of this project is to be able to analyse sales data, to identify the trends and to be able get more insight that informs the business decisions. This project focuses more on improving the customer relationship management(CRM),increasing sales efficiency and help the revenue growth of the company. This project focues on product performance, regional dristribution and monthly trends.

#### Scope of the project
1. To analyse the history of the sales.
2. To be able to get the average sales per product and total revenue by region.

###### Data Source
1. Sales Data- Information on transactions, sales volume, product details and revenue.

##### Methodology and Analysis
1. Data cleaning and preparation:
   . check for missing data, inconsistency and other outliers to ensure data accuracy.
   . Standardised regional data e.g North, West,South and East and validated product names.

2. Exploratory Data Analysis( EDA):
   . Top selling products- identify the highest top selling product by aggregiating the quantity and revenue.
   . Regional performance- compare the sales perfomance across regions to identify strong and weak market.

3. Key Metrics Calculated:
   . Total sales revenue- sum of revenue generated by multiplying quantity by price
   . Average sales Price
   . Quantity sold per region.

## Project 2- Customer Data

### Project Overview
This project is aimed at analysisng the customer subscription data to understand behavior, to tracj the subscription type and identify trends in cancellation. The focus is on identifying customer segment and providing insight that can help improve customer retention and subscription growth.

## Scope of the project-
To be able to get the average subscription duration and identify the most popular subscription type.

### Data Source
Customer Data- Customer profile,purchase history and feedback


### Data Structure
The customer subscription data includes:
1. Regions: Customer's geographic location
2. Subscription Type
3. Cancelled Subscription
4. Subscription Start  and End date.

### Methodology and Analysis
1.Data cleaning and transformation: Ensured date formats are consistent and missing values are addressed.

2.Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA): Evaluate the popularity of different subscription types, analyse different customers by region.

3.Metrics Calculated:
-Average subscription
-Subscription Duration type.


## Tools and Technologies
Through out this project i will be using the following tools,
1. Data analysis- Microsoft Excel[Download Here](https://1drv.ms/x/c/2bde39261423f390/EXul9CxndSZAo-FpB2wWV-QBe-u64ER1OeEZml0JpAcE0A?e=pqppAf )
2. SQL- For queries
3. Data Visualation- PowerBI

### Conclusion
Both sales and customer data provides insights to enhance decision making. By utilizing PowerBI for interactive dashboard, these project enables users to explore data and make data backed strategic adjustment in product sales, customer rention amd market growth strategies.
